Whats new in Chrome 111 (#5524)
GoogleChrome/developer.chrome.com: site/en/blog/new-in-chrome-111/index.md

<figure>
  {% Video
    playsinline="true",
    src="video/CZmpGM8Eo1dFe0KNhEO9SGO8Ok23/hgnJfPFUbGlucFegEEtl.mp4",
    class="video-full-demo",
    loop="true",
    autoplay="true",
    muted="true",
    controls="true"
  %}
  <figcaption>Transitions created with the View Transition API. <a href="https://http203-playlist.netlify.app/">Try the demo site</a>–Requires Chrome 111+.</figcaption>
</figure>

The default view transition is a cross fade, the following snippet implements this experience.

```js
function spaNavigate(data) {
  // Fallback for browsers that don't support this API:
  if (!document.startViewTransition) {
    updateTheDOMSomehow(data);
    return;
  }

  // With a transition:
  document.startViewTransition(() => updateTheDOMSomehow(data));
}
```

When `.startViewTransition()` is called, the API captures the current state of the page.

Once that's complete, the `callback` passed to `.startViewTransition()` is called. That's where the DOM is changed. Then, the API captures the new state of the page.

Note that the API is launched for Single-Page Apps (SPAs) but support for other models is being implemented too.

> There are many details to this API,[this article](/docs/web-platform/view-transitions/) contains samples and details to create your own custom transitions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are many details to this API, learn more [in our article containing samples and details](/docs/web-platform/view-transitions/), or explore the [View Transitions documentation on MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/View_Transitions_API).
```
